docs(Uno): SimplePhotos multiplatform tutorial (#4483)
MicrosoftDocs/windows-dev-docs: hub/apps/get-started/uno-simple-photo-viewer.md

---
title: Tutorial--Build a simple photo viewer that targets multiple platforms
description: Learn how to reach users across native mobile, web, and desktop with minimal changes to the C#/WinUI 3 simple photo viewer built in the previous tutorial. We'll use Uno Platform to create a new multi-platform app, which we can move code from the existing desktop project to.
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 05/21/2023
keywords: Windows, App, SDK, WinUI 3, WinUI, photo, viewer, Windows 11, Windows 10, XAML, C#, uno platform, uno
ms.author: aashcraft
author: alvinashcraft
ms.localizationpriority: medium
---

# Tutorial: Build a simple photo viewer that targets multiple platforms

> After you've [created](/hub/apps/get-started/simple-photo-viewer-winui3.md) a starter simple photo viewer WinUI 3 app, you might be wondering how to reach more users without having to rewrite your app. This tutorial will use [Uno Platform](https://platform.uno/) to expand the reach of your existing C# WinUI 3 application enabling reuse of the business logic and UI layer across native mobile, web, and desktop. With only minimal changes to the simple photo viewer app, we'll be able to run a pixel-perfect copy of the app ported to these platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you've [created](/hub/apps/get-started/simple-photo-viewer-winui3.md) a starter simple photo viewer WinUI 3 app, you might be wondering how to reach more users without having to rewrite your app. This tutorial uses [Uno Platform](https://platform.uno/) to expand the reach of your existing C# WinUI 3 application enabling reuse of the business logic and UI layer across native mobile, web, and desktop. With only minimal changes to the simple photo viewer app, we can run a pixel-perfect copy of the app ported to these platforms.
```

## Prerequisites

- [Visual Studio 2022 17.4 or later](https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/#vs-section)
- [Tools for Windows App SDK](../windows-app-sdk/set-up-your-development-environment.md)
- ASP.NET and web development workload (for WebAssembly development)
:::image type="content" source="../images/uno/uno-vs-install-web.png" alt-text="Web development workload in VS":::
- .NET Multi-platform App UI development installed (for iOS, Android, Mac Catalyst development).
:::image type="content" source="../images/uno/uno-vs-install-dotnet-mobile.png" alt-text="dotnet mobile workload in VS":::
- .NET desktop development installed (for Gtk, Wpf, and Linux Framebuffer development)
:::image type="content" source="../images/uno/uno-vs-install-dotnet.png" alt-text="dotnet desktop workload in VS":::

[!INCLUDE [uno-setup.md](../../includes/uno-setup.md)]

## Install the Uno Platform solution templates

Launch Visual Studio, then click `Continue without code`. Click `Extensions` -> `Manage Extensions` from the Menu Bar.

:::image type="content" source="../images/uno/uno-manage-extensions.png" alt-text="Visual Studio Menu bar item that reads manage extensions":::

> In the Extension Manager expand the **Online** node and search for `Uno`, install the `Uno Platform` extension, or download it from the [Visual Studio Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=unoplatform.uno-platform-addin-2022), then restart Visual Studio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Extension Manager expand the **Online** node and search for `Uno`, install the `Uno Platform` extension, or download and install it from the [Visual Studio Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=unoplatform.uno-platform-addin-2022), then restart Visual Studio.
```
Minor tweak. The current text sounds like you should restart VS after downloading the extension.

:::image type="content" source="../images/uno/uno-extensions.png" alt-text="Manage Extensions window in Visual Studio with Uno Platform extension as a search result":::

## Create an application

> Now that we are ready to create a multi-platform application, the approach we'll take is to create a new Uno Platform application. We will copy code from the previous tutorial's **SimplePhotos** WinUI 3 project into our multi-platform project. This is possible because Uno Platform lets you reuse your existing codebase. For features dependent on OS APIs provided by each platform, you can easily make them work over time. This approach is especially useful if you have an existing application that you want to port to other platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that we're ready to create a multi-platform application, the approach we'll take is to create a new Uno Platform application. We'll copy code from the previous tutorial's **SimplePhotos** WinUI 3 project into our multi-platform project. This is possible because Uno Platform lets you reuse your existing codebase. For features dependent on OS APIs provided by each platform, you can easily make them work over time. This approach is especially useful if you have an existing application that you want to port to other platforms.
```
Adding more contractions to make it feel less formal.

Soon enough, you will be able to reap the benefits of this approach, as you can target more platforms with a familiar XAML flavor and the codebase you already have.

Open Visual Studio and create a new project via `File` > `New` > `Project`:

:::image type="content" source="../images/uno/uno-create-project.png" alt-text="Create a new project":::

Search for Uno and select the Uno Platform App project template:

:::image type="content" source="../images/uno/uno-new-project.png" alt-text="Uno platform app":::

Create a new C# solution using the **Uno Platform App** type from Visual Studio's **Start Page**. To avoid conflicting with the code from the previous tutorial, we'll give this solution a different name, "UnoSimplePhotos". Specify the project name, solution name, and directory. In this example, our `UnoSimplePhotos` multi-platform project belongs to a `UnoSimplePhotos` solution, which will live in C:\Projects:

:::image type="content" source="images/uno/uno-configure-project.png" alt-text="Specify project details":::

Now you'll choose a base template to take your Simple Photo gallery application multi-platform.

> The Uno Platform App template comes with two preset options that allow you to quickly get started with either a **Blank** solution or the **Default** configuration which includes references to the Uno.Material and Uno.Toolkit libraries. The Default configuration also includes Uno.Extensions which is used for dependency injection, configuration, navigation, and logging, and it uses MVUX in place of MVVM, making it a great starting point for rapidly building real-world applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Uno Platform App template comes with two preset options that allow you to quickly get started with either a **Blank** solution or the **Default** configuration which includes references to the Uno.Material and Uno.Toolkit libraries. The Default configuration also includes Uno.Extensions which is used for dependency injection, configuration, navigation, and logging. In addition, it uses MVUX in place of MVVM, making it a great starting point for rapidly building real-world applications.
```
Shortening sentences

:::image type="content" source="../images/uno/uno-vsix-new-project-options.png" alt-text="Uno solution template for project startup type":::

To keep things simple, select the **Blank** preset. Then, click the **Create** button. Wait for the projects to be created and their dependencies to be restored.

A banner at the top of the editor may ask to reload projects, click **Reload projects**:
:::image type="content" source="../images/vs2022-project-reload.png" alt-text="Visual Studio banner offering to reload your projects to complete changes":::

You should see the following default file structure in your **Solution Explorer**:

:::image type="content" source="images/uno/screenshot2.png" alt-text="Default file structure":::

### Add image assets to the project

Your app will need some images to display. You can use the same images from the previous tutorial.

In the `UnoSimplePhotos` project, create a new folder named `Assets` and copy the JPG image files to a `Samples` subfolder. The `Assets` folder structure should now look like this:

> :::image type="content" source="images/uno/screenshot3.png" alt-text="dotnet mobile workload in VS":::

Reviewer: Is this the correct alt text for this screenshot? It's duplicated with the one on line 25.

For more information on creating the `Assets` folder and adding images to it, see the Uno Platform documentation about [Assets and image display](https://platform.uno/docs/articles/features/working-with-assets.html).

## Preparing your app

Now that you've generated the functional starting point of your multi-platform WinUI application, you can copy code into it from the desktop project.

### Copy the view

> Because Uno Platform allows you to use the XAML flavor you're already familiar with, you can copy over the same code you created in the [previous tutorial](/hub/apps/get-started/simple-photo-viewer-winui3.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because Uno Platform allows you to use the XAML flavor you're already familiar with, you can copy the same code over that you created in the [previous tutorial](/hub/apps/get-started/simple-photo-viewer-winui3.md).
```

                                       IsReadOnly="True"/>
                    </StackPanel>
                </Grid>
            </DataTemplate>

            <Style x:Key="ImageGridView_ItemContainerStyle"
                   TargetType="GridViewItem">
                <Setter Property="Background" 
                        Value="Gray"/>
                <Setter Property="Margin" 
                        Value="8"/>
            </Style>

            <ItemsPanelTemplate x:Key="ImageGridView_ItemsPanelTemplate">
                <ItemsWrapGrid Orientation="Horizontal"
                               HorizontalAlignment="Center"/>
            </ItemsPanelTemplate>
        </Grid.Resources>

        <GridView x:Name="ImageGridView"
                  ItemsSource="{x:Bind Images}"
                  ItemTemplate="{StaticResource ImageGridView_ItemTemplate}"
                  ItemContainerStyle="{StaticResource ImageGridView_ItemContainerStyle}"
                  ItemsPanel="{StaticResource ImageGridView_ItemsPanelTemplate}"
                  ContainerContentChanging="ImageGridView_ContainerContentChanging">
        </GridView>
    </Grid>
</Page>
```

> Recall that the desktop solution also had a `MainWindow.xaml.cs` file that contained code-behind which corresponds to the view. In the Uno Platform project, the code-behind for the `MainPage` view we've copied into is contained in the `MainPage.xaml.cs` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may recall that the desktop solution also had a `MainWindow.xaml.cs` file that contained code-behind which corresponds to the view. In the Uno Platform project, the code-behind for the `MainPage` view we've copied into is contained in the `MainPage.xaml.cs` file.
```

To bring this code-behind multi-platform, we should first move the following into the `MainPage.xaml.cs` file:

- `Images` property: Provides the `GridView` with an observable collection of image files

- Contents of the constructor: Calls `GetItemsAsync()` to populate the `Images` collection with items representing image files

- Remove the manual modification of the `ImageGridView` control's `ItemsSource` property

> - `ImageGridView_ContainerContentChanging` method: Used as part of a [strategy](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/debug-test-perf/optimize-gridview-and-listview#update-listview-and-gridview-items-progressively) to progressively load `GridView` items as they are scrolled into view

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ImageGridView_ContainerContentChanging` method: Used as part of a [strategy](/windows/uwp/debug-test-perf/optimize-gridview-and-listview#update-listview-and-gridview-items-progressively) to progressively load `GridView` items as they are scrolled into view
```

        return bitmapImage;
    }

    public string ImageName { get; }

    public string ImageFileType { get; }

    public string ImageDimensions => $"{ImageProperties.Width} x {ImageProperties.Height}";

    public string ImageTitle
    {
        get => string.IsNullOrEmpty(ImageProperties.Title) ? ImageName : ImageProperties.Title;
        set
        {
            if (ImageProperties.Title != value)
            {
                ImageProperties.Title = value;
                _ = ImageProperties.SavePropertiesAsync();
                OnPropertyChanged();
            }
        }
    }

    public int ImageRating
    {
        get => (int)ImageProperties.Rating;
        set
        {
            if (ImageProperties.Rating != value)
            {
                ImageProperties.Rating = (uint)value;
                _ = ImageProperties.SavePropertiesAsync();
                OnPropertyChanged();
            }
        }
    }

    public event PropertyChangedEventHandler? PropertyChanged;

    protected void OnPropertyChanged([CallerMemberName] string? propertyName = null) =>
        PropertyChanged?.Invoke(this, new PropertyChangedEventArgs(propertyName));
}
```

> This class will serve as a model to represent the image files in the `GridView`. Although it should technically possible to run the app at this point, it may not render the images correctly or display their properties. In the next sections, we will make a set of changes to these copied files to make them compatible in a multi-platform context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This class will serve as a model to represent the image files in the `GridView`. Although it should technically possible to run the app at this point, it may not render the images correctly or display their properties. In the next sections, we'll make a set of changes to these copied files to make them compatible in a multi-platform context.
```

### Using preprocessor directives

> In the desktop project from the previous tutorial, the `MainPage.xaml.cs` file contains a `GetItemsAsync` method that enumerates items from a `StorageFolder` representing the installed package location. Because that location is not available on certain platforms such as WebAssembly, we will need to make changes to this method to make it compatible with all platforms. We will accordingly make some changes to the `ImageFileInfo` class to ensure compatibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the desktop project from the previous tutorial, the `MainPage.xaml.cs` file contains a `GetItemsAsync` method that enumerates items from a `StorageFolder` representing the installed package location. Because that location is not available on certain platforms such as WebAssembly, we'll need to make changes to this method to make it compatible with all platforms. We'll accordingly make some changes to the `ImageFileInfo` class to ensure compatibility.
```

> First, we will make changes to the `GetItemsAsync` method. Replace the `GetItemsAsync` method in the `MainPage.xaml.cs` file with the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, make the required changes to the `GetItemsAsync` method. Replace the `GetItemsAsync` method in the `MainPage.xaml.cs` file with the following code:
```

```csharp
private async Task GetItemsAsync()
{
#if WINDOWS
    StorageFolder appInstalledFolder = Package.Current.InstalledLocation;
    StorageFolder picturesFolder = await appInstalledFolder.GetFolderAsync("UnoSimplePhotos\\Assets\\Samples");

    var result = picturesFolder.CreateFileQueryWithOptions(new QueryOptions());

    IReadOnlyList<StorageFile> imageFiles = await result.GetFilesAsync();
#else
    var imageFileNames = Enumerable.Range(1, 20).Select(i => new Uri($"ms-appx:///UnoSimplePhotos/Assets/Samples/{i}.jpg"));
    var imageFiles = new List<StorageFile>();

    foreach (var file in imageFileNames)
    {
        imageFiles.Add(await StorageFile.GetFileFromApplicationUriAsync(file));
    }
#endif
    foreach (StorageFile file in imageFiles)
    {
        Images.Add(await LoadImageInfoAsync(file));
    }
}
```

> This method now uses a **preprocessor directive** to determine which code to execute based on the platform. On Windows, the method will get the `StorageFolder` representing the installed package location and get the `Samples` folder from it. On other platforms, the method will count up to 20 getting the image files from the `Samples` folder using a `Uri` to represent the image file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This method now uses a **preprocessor directive** to determine which code to execute based on the platform. On Windows, the method gets the `StorageFolder` representing the installed package location and returns the `Samples` folder from it. On other platforms, the method counts up to 20, getting the image files from the `Samples` folder using a `Uri` to represent the image file.
```

> Next, we will need to adjust the `LoadImageInfoAsync` method to accommodate the changes we made to the `GetItemsAsync` method. Replace the `LoadImageInfoAsync` method in the `MainPage.xaml.cs` file with the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, adjust the `LoadImageInfoAsync` method to accommodate the changes we made to the `GetItemsAsync` method. Replace the `LoadImageInfoAsync` method in the `MainPage.xaml.cs` file with the following code:
```

```csharp
public async static Task<ImageFileInfo> LoadImageInfoAsync(StorageFile file)
{
#if WINDOWS
    var properties = await file.Properties.GetImagePropertiesAsync();
    ImageFileInfo info = new(properties,
                                file, file.DisplayName, $"{file.FileType} file");
#else
    ImageFileInfo info = new(file, file.DisplayName, $"{file.FileType} file");
#endif
    return info;
}
```

> Similar to the `GetItemsAsync` method, this method now uses a preprocessor directive to determine which code to execute based on the platform. On Windows, the method will get the `ImageProperties` from the `StorageFile` and use it to create an `ImageFileInfo` object. On other platforms, the method will construct an `ImageFileInfo` object without the `ImageProperties` parameter. Later on, modifications will be made to the `ImageFileInfo` class to accommodate this change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similar to the `GetItemsAsync` method, this method now uses a preprocessor directive to determine which code to execute based on the platform. On Windows, the method gets the `ImageProperties` from the `StorageFile` and uses it to create an `ImageFileInfo` object. On other platforms, the method constructs an `ImageFileInfo` object without the `ImageProperties` parameter. Later, modifications will be made to the `ImageFileInfo` class to accommodate this change.
```

> Controls like `GridView` allow for **progressive loading** of updated item container content as they are scrolled into the viewport. This is done by using the `ContainerContentChanging` event. In the desktop project from the previous tutorial, the `ImageGridView_ContainerContentChanging` method uses this event to load the image files into the `GridView`. Because certain aspects of this event are not supported on all platforms, we will need to make changes to this method to make it compatible with them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Controls like `GridView` allow for **progressive loading** of updated item container content as they are scrolled into the viewport. This is done by using the `ContainerContentChanging` event. In the desktop project from the previous tutorial, the `ImageGridView_ContainerContentChanging` method uses this event to load the image files into the `GridView`. Because certain aspects of this event are not supported on all platforms, we'll need to make changes to this method to make it compatible with them.
```

:::image type="content" source="images/uno/xaml-attached-layout-realizationrect.png" alt-text="Diagram of collection control viewport":::

> For instance, the `ContainerContentChangingEventArgs.Phase` property is currently unsupported on platforms other than Windows. We will need to make changes to the `ImageGridView_ContainerContentChanging` method to accommodate this change. Replace the `ImageGridView_ContainerContentChanging` method in the `MainPage.xaml.cs` file with the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For instance, the `ContainerContentChangingEventArgs.Phase` property is currently unsupported on platforms other than Windows. We'll need to make changes to the `ImageGridView_ContainerContentChanging` method to accommodate this change. Replace the `ImageGridView_ContainerContentChanging` method in the `MainPage.xaml.cs` file with the following code:
```

```csharp
private void ImageGridView_ContainerContentChanging(
ListViewBase sender,
ContainerContentChangingEventArgs args)
{

    if (args.InRecycleQueue)
    {
        var templateRoot = args.ItemContainer.ContentTemplateRoot as Grid;
        var image = templateRoot?.FindName("ItemImage") as Image;
        if (image is not null)
        {
            image.Source = null;
        }
    }

#if WINDOWS
        if (args.Phase == 0)
        {
            args.RegisterUpdateCallback(ShowImage);
            args.Handled = true;
        }
#else
    ShowImage(sender, args);
#endif
}
```

> The specialized callback is now only registered using `ContainerContentChangingEventArgs.RegisterUpdateCallback()` if the platform is Windows. Otherwise, the `ShowImage` method is called directly. We will also need to make changes to the `ShowImage` method to work alongside the changes made to the `ImageGridView_ContainerContentChanging` method. Replace the `ShowImage` method in the `MainPage.xaml.cs` file with the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The specialized callback is now only registered using `ContainerContentChangingEventArgs.RegisterUpdateCallback()` if the platform is Windows. Otherwise, the `ShowImage` method is called directly. We'll also need to make changes to the `ShowImage` method to work alongside the changes made to the `ImageGridView_ContainerContentChanging` method. Replace the `ShowImage` method in the `MainPage.xaml.cs` file with the following code:
```

```csharp
private async void ShowImage(ListViewBase sender, ContainerContentChangingEventArgs args)
{
    if (
#if WINDOWS
            args.Phase == 1
#else
        true
#endif
        )
    {

        // It's phase 1, so show this item's image.
        var templateRoot = args.ItemContainer.ContentTemplateRoot as Grid;
        var image = templateRoot?.FindName("ItemImage") as Image;
        var item = args.Item as ImageFileInfo;
#if WINDOWS
        if (image is not null && item is not null)
        {
            image.Source = await item.GetImageThumbnailAsync();
        }
#else
        if (item is not null)
        {
            await item.GetImageSourceAsync();
        }
#endif
    }
}
```

> Again, preprocessor directives ensure that the `ContainerContentChangingEventArgs.Phase` property is only used where it is supported. We make use of the previously unused `GetImageSourceAsync()` method to load the image files into the `GridView` on platforms other than Windows. At this point, we will accommodate the changes made above by editing the `ImageFileInfo` class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Again, preprocessor directives ensure that the `ContainerContentChangingEventArgs.Phase` property is only used on platforms where it is supported. We make use of the previously unused `GetImageSourceAsync()` method to load the image files into the `GridView` on platforms other than Windows. At this point, we'll accommodate the changes made above by editing the `ImageFileInfo` class.
```

### Creating a separate code path for other platforms

Update `ImageFileInfo.cs` to include a new property called `ImageSource` that will be used to load the image file.

```csharp
public BitmapImage? ImageSource { get; private set; }
```

> Because platforms like the web do not support advanced image file properties that are readily available on Windows, we should add a constructor overload that does not require an `ImageProperties` typed parameter. Add a new overload under the existing one using the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because platforms like the web do not support advanced image file properties that are readily available on Windows, we'll add a constructor overload that does not require an `ImageProperties` typed parameter. Add the new overload after the existing one using the following code:
```

```csharp
public ImageFileInfo(StorageFile imageFile,
    string name,
    string type)
{
    ImageName = name;
    ImageFileType = type;
    ImageFile = imageFile;
}
```

> This constructor overload will be used to construct an `ImageFileInfo` object on platforms other than Windows. Since we did this, it makes sense to make the `ImageProperties` property nullable. Update the `ImageProperties` property to be nullable using the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This constructor overload is used to construct an `ImageFileInfo` object on platforms other than Windows. Since we did this, it makes sense to make the `ImageProperties` property nullable. Update the `ImageProperties` property to be nullable using the following code:
```

```csharp
public ImageProperties? ImageProperties { get; }
```

Update the `GetImageSourceAsync` method to use the `ImageSource` property instead of only returning a `BitmapImage` object. Replace the `GetImageSourceAsync` method in the `ImageFileInfo.cs` file with the following code:

```csharp
public async Task<BitmapImage> GetImageSourceAsync()
{
    using IRandomAccessStream fileStream = await ImageFile.OpenReadAsync();

    // Create a bitmap to be the image source.
    BitmapImage bitmapImage = new();
    bitmapImage.SetSource(fileStream);

    ImageSource = bitmapImage;
    PropertyChanged?.Invoke(this, new PropertyChangedEventArgs(nameof(ImageSource)));

    return bitmapImage;
}
```

> To prevent getting the value of `ImageProperties` when it's null, we will need to make the following changes:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To prevent getting the value of `ImageProperties` when it's null, make the following changes:
```

                    OnPropertyChanged();
                }
            }
        }
    }
    ```

- Change `ImageRating` to not rely on `ImageProperties` by generating a random star rating for demonstration purposes:

    ```csharp
    public int ImageRating
    {
        get => (int)((ImageProperties?.Rating == null || ImageProperties.Rating == 0) ? (uint)Random.Shared.Next(1, 5) : ImageProperties.Rating);
        set
        {
            if (ImageProperties is not null)
            {
                if (ImageProperties.Rating != value)
                {
                    ImageProperties.Rating = (uint)value;
                    _ = ImageProperties.SavePropertiesAsync();
                    OnPropertyChanged();
                }
            }
        }
    }
    ```

- Update the constructor that generates a random integer to no longer do this:

    ```csharp
    public ImageFileInfo(ImageProperties properties,
        StorageFile imageFile,
        string name,
        string type)
    {
        ImageProperties = properties;
        ImageName = name;
        ImageFileType = type;
        ImageFile = imageFile;
    }
    ```

> With these edits, the `ImageFileInfo` class should contain the following code which has a newly-separated code path for platforms other than Windows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With these edits, the `ImageFileInfo` class should contain the following code. It now has a newly-separated code path for platforms other than Windows:
```

        set
        {
            if (ImageProperties is not null)
            {
                if (ImageProperties.Title != value)
                {
                    ImageProperties.Title = value;
                    _ = ImageProperties.SavePropertiesAsync();
                    OnPropertyChanged();
                }
            }
        }
    }

    public int ImageRating
    {
        get => (int)((ImageProperties?.Rating == null || ImageProperties.Rating == 0) ? (uint)Random.Shared.Next(1, 5) : ImageProperties.Rating);
        set
        {
            if (ImageProperties is not null)
            {
                if (ImageProperties.Rating != value)
                {
                    ImageProperties.Rating = (uint)value;
                    _ = ImageProperties.SavePropertiesAsync();
                    OnPropertyChanged();
                }
            }
        }
    }

    public event PropertyChangedEventHandler? PropertyChanged;

    protected void OnPropertyChanged([CallerMemberName] string? propertyName = null) =>
        PropertyChanged?.Invoke(this, new PropertyChangedEventArgs(propertyName));
}
```

> This `ImageFileInfo` class will be used to represent the image files in the `GridView`. Finally, we will make changes to the `MainPage.xaml` file to accommodate these changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `ImageFileInfo` class is used to represent the image files in the `GridView`. Finally, we'll make changes to the `MainPage.xaml` file to accommodate the changes to the model.
```

### Using platform-specific XAML markup

> There are a couple of items in our view markup which should be evaluated on Windows only. Add a new namespace on the `Page` element of the `MainPage.xaml` file like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a couple of items in our view markup which should only be evaluated on Windows. Add a new namespace on the `Page` element of the `MainPage.xaml` file like this:
```

```xml
...
xmlns:win="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2006/xaml/presentation"
```

> Now, in `MainPage.xaml`, replace the `ItemsPanel` property setter on the GridView element with the following code:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, in `MainPage.xaml`, replace the `ItemsPanel` property setter on the `GridView` element with the following code:
```

  - In the debug toolbar drop-down, select an active iOS device or the simulator. You'll need to be paired with a Mac for this to work.

      :::image type="content" source="../images/uno/uno-mobile-debug.png" alt-text="Visual Studio dropdown to select a target framework to deploy":::

- To debug for **Mac Catalyst**:
  - Right-click on the `UnoSimplePhotos.Mobile` project, and select **Set as startup project**
  - In the debug toolbar drop-down, select a remote macOS device. You'll need to be paired with one for this to work.
- To debug the **Android** platform:
  - Right-click on the `UnoSimplePhotos.Mobile` project, and select **Set as startup project**
  - In the debug toolbar drop-down, select either an active Android device or the emulator
    - Select an active device in the "Device" sub-menu
- To debug on **Linux** with **Skia GTK**:
  - Right-click on the `UnoSimplePhotos.Skia.Gtk` project, and select **Set as startup project**
  - Press the `UnoSimplePhotos.Skia.Gtk` button to deploy the app

## See also

- [Uno Platform documentation](https://platform.uno/docs/articles/intro.html)

> - [Update ListView and GridView items progressively](https://learn.microsoft.com/windows/uwp/debug-test-perf/optimize-gridview-and-listview#update-listview-and-gridview-items-progressively)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Update ListView and GridView items progressively](/windows/uwp/debug-test-perf/optimize-gridview-and-listview#update-listview-and-gridview-items-progressively)
```
